docs: update-configuration-file.mdx (#666)
Redocly/redocly-cli: docs/configuration/configuration-file.mdx

# Redocly configuration file

The Redocly configuration file is used by OpenAPI CLI and other Redocly apps to control their behavior — from the strictness of the `lint` command, to how Redocly renders your docs.

* Workflows uses it in the API registry to manage your APIs and control advanced features like region and link resolution.
* Reference uses it to apply your custom settings when it's building API reference documentation (hosted and on-premise).
* VS Code extension uses it for linting criteria, to apply custom settings for live documentation previews, and to set API definition root files.

## Location, name and format

The Redocly configuration file must be named either `redocly.yaml` or `.redocly.yaml`. It must be located in the root of your project directory, and it must be in the YAML format. If you cloned the `openapi-starter` project, this is already set up for you.

All of the available sections and config options are documented below.

> 

Reviewer: Missing the top level object documentation.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean, sorry Adam.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this? https://github.com/Redocly/openapi-cli/pull/666#discussion_r863979880

Author: I removed it because I thought it might be overkill. Clearly got that wrong. :) I'll reinstate it.

## `organization`

Stores your Redocly Workflows organization ID that the `push` command uses to push API definition files to the API registry. If an organization ID is not passed explicitly in command-line arguments, `push` will look for it in `redocly.yaml`.

:::info
In Redocly Workflows, organization ID and organization name are not the same thing.
:::

To find the organization ID:

1. Log into Workflows.
2. Access the **API registry** page.
3. In your browser's address bar, find the page URL.
4. The segment after `app.redocly.com/org/` is the organization ID.

For example, if the URL is `app.redocly.com/org/test_docs`, the organization ID is `test_docs`.

> ## `apis`

Reviewer: This section is missing the property/type/description table summary (noticed that in other sections below).

patternProperties
{apiName}@{apiVersion}
{apiName}

Then, the api object:
root string
lint Lint object
openapi.features  OpenAPI Features object
etc...

### Overview

The `apis` section lets you configure one or more OpenAPI definition files. This gives you the flexibility to reference specific files in commands, and configure each file at a granular level.

Every file listed in this section is identified by `name@version`. `@version` is optional. It allows you to derive multiple API definition versions from the same root file. When a version is not provided, Redocly apps interpret a file as being `latest`. Every `name@version` combination must be unique.

> For every OpenAPI definition listed in the `apis` section, use the `root:` property to define the path to the file. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every OpenAPI definition listed in the `apis` section, use the `root` property to define the path to the file. For example:
```

```yaml
apis:
  main@v1:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
```

### Impact on commands

> You can pass `name` or `name@version` in commands like `lint` and `stats` to act only on the OpenAPI definition files you specify, not all of them.

Reviewer: nitpick: The end of this sentence feels a little awkward

Bonus: You only need to type `name` or `name@version` in commands, not the entire path to the file. No one's getting any younger — especially not us. Where we can save you time, we will!

### Examples

```yaml
apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
  production:
    root: ./production.yaml
    labels:
      - production
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
  sandbox:
    root: ./sandbox.yaml
    labels:
      - sandbox

>     lint: []
>     features.openapi: []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    lint: {}
    features.openapi: {}
```

```

> Based on this configuration, `./production.yaml` will get validated because it's the only one currently using the name `production`:

Reviewer: Can we we avoid the `will` (future) type of tense here?
```suggestion
Given the configuration above and the following command, `./production.yaml` is validated because it's the only one currently using the name `production`:
```

```shell
openapi lint production
```

If you run `lint` without specifying a name, all API definitions listed in the `apis` section will get validated:

```shell
openapi lint
```

> When you run the [preview-docs command](../commands/preview-docs.md), you *must* specify a file, so why not just reference definitions listed in the `apis` section?

Reviewer: nitpick: the question here feels a bit strange.
```suggestion
When you run the [preview-docs command](../commands/preview-docs.md), you *must* specify a file. As a shortcut, you can reference definitions listed in the `apis` section.
```

        example-rule: warn
```

Not all `lint` options are supported for individual APIs.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
lint.extends | ❗ | API settings override global settings.
lint.rules | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.decorators | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.preprocessors | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.plugins | ❌ | Available in global configuration only.

#### The `features.openapi` property
The global (top-level) `features.openapi` section is where you configure how all of your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as *theming*) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option — known as *functionality*).

If you need to apply different theming and functionality to individual APIs, just add the `features-openapi` property to the `apis` section, and use the same options as the global `features-openapi`.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
features.openapi | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.

> #### The `features-mockServer` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The `features.mockServer` property
```

## `lint`

### Overview
The `lint` section lets you set rules that control how the `lint` and `bundle` commands behave.

You can set global (top-level) rules for all OpenAPI definition files, or for specific files listed in the `apis` section. If `lint` rules are defined for individual APIs, their settings apply *together* with the global configuration. So, if API and global sections modify the same properties, API settings will always override global settings.

The `lint` section is broken into smaller sub-sections, each defining different configuration options. Here's an example showing the `plugins`, `extends` and `rules` sub-sections:

```yaml
lint:
  plugins:
    - './local-plugin.js'
  extends:
    - recommended
  rules:
    no-sibling-refs:
      severity: error
    boolean-parameter-prefixes:
      severity: error
      prefixes: ['should', 'is', 'has']
  ...
```

Each sub-section is described below. All are optional, so only add them to the `lint` section if needed.

:::info
The `rules` and `decorators` sub-sections only work at the API level. The `plugins` sub-section only works at the global level.
:::

> #### The `plugins` sub-section

Reviewer: question: Is there a reason for it to not be "subsection"?

Author: No reason. It's just how I have expressed this word in the past. I'll use subsection from now on.

| Type     | Possible values                 | Default value |
|----------|---------------------------------|---------------|
| `string` | `all`, `minimal`, `recommended` | `recommended` |

OpenAPI CLI comes with [built-in rules](./resources/built-in-rules.md) that are used to validate API definitions. In the Redocly configuration file, you can apply and configure each built-in rule per definition, or you can use **rule sets** to invoke a lot of rules at the same time.

OpenAPI CLI has three rule sets — each specifying different levels of severity — that can be applied via the `--extends` option in the `lint` command.

The `extends` sub-section in the Redocly configuration file lets you configure rule sets and further extensions, and also lets you add your own plugins. You can use subsequent sub-sections to override specific settings if you wish.

`all`, `minimal` and `recommended` can only be used with built-in rules. For custom plugins, additional configuration can be applied (our [guide to custom plugins and rules](../resources/custom-rules.md#configs-in-plugins) has more information).

Here are some examples of `extends`:

```yaml
lint:
  extends:
    - recommended

>     - my-custom-rule-set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - sample/my-custom-rule-set
```
They are always namespaced in this type of way with a `/`

#### The `rules` sub-section

| Type | Possible values |
|---|---|
| `Map [string, string | Rule object]` | `error`, `warn`, `off` |

`rules` lets you change the [severity level](#severity-levels) of any rule in your extended linting configurations. Some rules can also support [additional options](#additional-rule-options).

:::info
When running the `lint` command, rules run *after* preprocessors. For the `bundle` command, rules run *between* preprocessors and decorators.
:::

In this example, we can see how we might use the `rules` sub-section to influence `lint` when it encounters the `info-contact` built-in rule:

```yaml Short syntax
lint:
  rules:
    info-contact: error
```

```yaml Verbose syntax
lint:
  rules:
    info-contact:
      severity: error
```

```yaml Rules with additional configuration
# Use verbose configuration syntax to define additional configuration
# The boolean-parameter-prefixes example overrides the default "prefixes".
lint:
  rules:
    boolean-parameter-prefixes:
      severity: error
      prefixes: ['should', 'is', 'has']
```

#### The `decorators` sub-section

| Type | Possible values |
|---|---|

> | `Map [string, string | Rule object]` | `error`, `warn`, `off` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Map [string, string | Decorator object]` | `error`, `warn`, `off` |
```

In this example:
* If version 2 (formerly known as Swagger) then `lint` will prioritize the `oas2Rules` sub-section.
* If version 3 (OpenAPI 3.x) then `lint` will prioritize the `oas3_0Rules` sub-section.
* If no version is defined then `lint` will fall back to the `rules` sub-section.

```yaml
lint:
  extends:
    - recommended
  rules:
    boolean-parameter-prefixes: warn
    no-unused-components: error
  oas2Rules:
    no-unused-components: off
  oas3_0Rules:
    boolean-parameter-prefixes: error
```

See our [built-in rules documentation](../resources/built-in-rules.md) for more information about the built-in rules available in OpenAPI CLI.

### Resolve JSON references ($refs) — or not

The OpenAPI Specification supports `$refs` in several objects to enable content re-use and make longer API definitions easier to deal with. Different tools and implementations of the specification — as well as the human beings who write the actual definitions — may use or require `$refs` in unsupported places.

> Starting from version `beta-30`, OpenAPI CLI automatically resolves all `$refs` by default — even in those dark, dusty corners where the OpenAPI Specification does not allow them. This includes primitive values, for example `string`, in description and example fields.

Reviewer: issue: I don't think this is accurate. I could be wrong, but I think it resolves all `$refs` allowed by OAS and also resolves all scalar fields (not allowed by OAS). There are still other things it does not resolve which are not allowed by OAS. @RomanHotsiy can correct me if I'm wrong here.

All of the available sections and config options are documented below.

## `organization`

Stores your Redocly Workflows organization ID that the `push` command uses to push API definition files to the API registry. If an organization ID is not passed explicitly in command-line arguments, `push` will look for it in `redocly.yaml`.

:::info
In Redocly Workflows, organization ID and organization name are not the same thing.
:::

To find the organization ID:

1. Log into Workflows.
2. Access the **API registry** page.
3. In your browser's address bar, find the page URL.
4. The segment after `app.redocly.com/org/` is the organization ID.

For example, if the URL is `app.redocly.com/org/test_docs`, the organization ID is `test_docs`.

## `apis`

### Overview

The `apis` section lets you configure one or more OpenAPI definition files. This gives you the flexibility to reference specific files in commands, and configure each file at a granular level.

> Every file listed in this section is identified by `name@version`. `@version` is optional. It allows you to derive multiple API definition versions from the same root file. When a version is not provided, Redocly apps interpret a file as being `latest`. Every `name@version` combination must be unique.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: This doesn't seem right:

> It allows you to derive multiple API definition versions from the same root file.

Technically, it would work, but I'm not sure that's the most common way people use versioning (I could be wrong, though). Maybe you can just say "It allows you to manage multiple versions of each API." to catch all use-cases?

For every OpenAPI definition listed in the `apis` section, use the `root` property to define the path to the file. For example:

```yaml
apis:
  main@v1:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
```

### Impact on commands

You can pass `name` or `name@version` in commands like `lint` and `stats` to act only on the OpenAPI definition files you specify.

Bonus: You only need to type `name` or `name@version` in commands, not the entire path to the file. No one's getting any younger — especially not us. Where we can save you time, we will!

### Summary of `apis` properties

| Property |  | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `{apiName}` |  | `patternProperties` | REQUIRED. Identifies an API definition file. |

> | `{apiName}@{apiVersion}` |  | `patternProperties` | Identifies multiple versions of an API definition file. `{apiName}` is required but `@version` is optional. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `{apiName}@{apiVersion}` |  | `patternProperties` | Identifies multiple versions of an API. `{apiName}` is required but `@version` is optional. |
```

|  | `root` | `string` | REQUIRED. The relative path to where a definition file is stored. |

> |  | `labels` | `array` | Assigns Redocly Workflows organization-wide labels to a definition file. |

Reviewer 2: suggestion: can we link from this to the section that describes `labels` in more detail? And then do the same for every property/section where it applies.

Author: Sure. Do I express this as:

[link text](#labels)
See the [`labels`](#labels) section for more information.

Author: Yes - great idea. Is this the correct syntax:

`[labels](./configuration-file.mdx#labels)`

Reviewer 2: For links within the same file, the file name is not needed. You can directly link to the heading, like this: [labels](#labels)

|  | `lint` | `object` | Defines linting rules at the file level (overrides global `lint` configuration). |

> |  | `features.openapi` | `object` | Configures theming and functionality for an API definition. |

Reviewer: It might help to review the OpenAPI specification. This is not how they describe objects. Our audience is primarily coming from there. I think we should describe objects in the same way as them. Also, this is more or less incorrect. 

The configuration file is following a specification. OpenAPI structure is:

### {Name} object

Object summary sentence.

#### Fixed fields | Patterned fields
|Property|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|name|type|A description here.|

Further explanation, restrictions, etc...

#### {Name} examples

Examples here.

----

I'm really for following that same structure because it is a consistent way to describe a specification.

There are different ways to present even the OpenAPI specification.

https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md <-- how the

Reviewer: Not sure if you saw this one: https://gist.github.com/adamaltman/2f224b2abcb37a0b962d99f32dfe92b0#redocly-configuration-object

Author: Yes, I did see your POC thanks. Regarding describing the configuration file schema, are you saying we should follow https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md#schema?

**Field Name | Type | Description**

`apis` | `object` | Lets you configure one or more API definition files...

And if we are strictly using formal names for **Type** (object, string etc) I would prefer to place a link to the section of the page discussing that field in the **Description** column, not as part of **Type**.

Reviewer: It should be the type, not a link in the description. For example:

info | [Info Object](#) | A description here. 

Info Object is the formal name for that type. Object is not a scalar type, and is too vague. This is an important distinction.

However, I think we already have the schema quite documented. I moved this up on the page, but here:

https://redocly.com/docs/cli/configuration/#file-format-and-structure

Author: You're right, we do have it documented. I will reinstate it in the update but in the table format so it's more accessible to a wider audience.

Reviewer: I wonder if we're sure it is more accessible though? How do we know?

Author: Perhaps, to save time, and to at least get some improved form of the page out there, I should reinstate the schema layout as it is currently. I'm not entirely sure what the right answer is here.

Author: @adamaltman I just took a look at the current published config file page and your change. I am not sure how to work around that schema import so will just try my best at working in all of the other requested changes for the page.

Author: Based on discussion here and in Slack, I won't use the Field name | Type | Description table to describe the entire `redocly.yaml` schema and just use the existing schema that is already shown on the published page. I will edit the schema.yaml to reflect updated wording.

> |  | `features.openapi` | `object` | Configures theming and functionality for an API definition. |

Reviewer 2: question: features.openapi also overrides the global configuration, no?

Author: @adamaltman - can you please advise if this is the case?

Reviewer: It is.

> |  | `features.openapi` | `object` | Configures theming and functionality for an API definition. |

Reviewer 2: issue: mock server seems to be missing from this table

### Examples

```yaml
apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
  production:
    root: ./production.yaml
    labels:
      - production
    lint: []
    features.openapi: []
  sandbox:
    root: ./sandbox.yaml
    labels:
      - sandbox
    lint: {}
    features.openapi: {}
```

Given the configuration above and the following command, `./production.yaml` is validated because it's the only one currently using the name `production`:

```shell
openapi lint production
```

If you run `lint` without specifying a name, all API definitions listed in the `apis` section will get validated:

```shell
openapi lint
```

> When you run the [preview-docs command](../commands/preview-docs.md), you *must* specify a file. As a shortcut, you can reference definitions listed in the `apis` section.

Reviewer 2: question: why are we focusing specifically on the `push` command here? Isn't this true for most commands?

Author: Did you mean the `preview-docs` command? That was in the original so I kept it. It sounds to me like you *can* specify a file in any command, but you *must* specify a file in the `preview-docs` command.

@adamaltman - can you please confirm?

Reviewer 2: My bad, you're right, it's `preview-docs`. Still, the same question stands... `preview-docs `doesn't have to be used with a file. It also works with that "shortcut" of referencing the `apiName@version` syntax. It's documented here: https://redocly.com/docs/cli/commands/preview-docs/#pass-entrypoint-alias

Reviewer 2: I can't find this in the original text, could you please point me to where it is? That's one of the reasons why I'm so confused by this sentence :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: No, you can use an API name@version too.

Author: @skadinna now I am the one who is confused! 😅 I don't know why I said that was in the original - it's not. Sorry for the wild goose chase!

I will change that entire statement about `preview-docs` to make it just another example of how definition file names can be passed in any command.

```shell
openapi preview-docs production
```

### Optional properties supported by the `apis` section

> The `apis` section supports several optional properties for each definition file listed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `apis` section supports several optional properties for each API.
```

#### The `labels` property

> Use `labels` to assign one or more existing Redocly Workflows organization-wide labels to your OpenAPI definitions. You must have a Redocly Workflows account with an active organization, and the top-level `organization` property must be added to `redocly.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `labels` to assign one or more existing Redocly Workflows organization-wide labels to your APIs. You must have a Redocly Workflows account with an active organization, and the top-level `organization` property must be added to `redocly.yaml`.
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: suggestion: it could be helpful to show the `organization` property in this example, too

apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
```

:::info
If you try to assign labels that don't already exist for your organization, Redocly apps will show a warning in the output and will only assign existing labels.
:::

#### The `lint` property

> In addition to the global (top-level) `lint` section, you can define lint rules for each definition listed in the `apis` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the global (top-level) `lint` section, you can define lint rules for each API listed in the `apis` section.
```

```yaml
apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint:
      rules:
        example-rule: warn
```

Not all `lint` options are supported for individual APIs.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
lint.extends | ❗ | API settings override global settings.
lint.rules | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.decorators | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.preprocessors | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.plugins | ❌ | Available in global configuration only.

#### The `features.openapi` property
The global (top-level) `features.openapi` section is where you configure how all of your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as *theming*) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option — known as *functionality*).

> If you need to apply different theming and functionality to individual APIs, just add the `features-openapi` property to the `apis` section, and use the same options as the global `features-openapi`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to apply different theming and functionality to individual APIs, add the `features-openapi` property to the `apis` section, and use the same options as the global `features-openapi`.
```

Reviewer 2: issue: I don't understand this second part:

> and use the same options as the global features-openapi.

Do you mean to say that users should copy the contents of the global `features.openapi` into each individual API's `features.openapi`? Or that the same options supported in the global section are supported in individual sections? Like this sentence from the original text? "This section supports identical format and options as the global features.openapi section."

Also, it should be `features.openapi` - fullstop, not hyphen.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
features.openapi | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.

#### The `features.mockServer` property
You can apply `features.mockServer` to individual APIs as well as at the global level.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
features.mockServer | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.

## `lint`

### Overview
The `lint` section lets you set rules that control how the `lint` and `bundle` commands behave.

> You can set global (top-level) rules for all OpenAPI definition files, or for specific files listed in the `apis` section. If `lint` rules are defined for individual APIs, their settings apply *together* with the global configuration. So, if API and global sections modify the same properties, API settings will always override global settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set global (top-level) rules for all APIs, or specific rules for each API listed in the `apis` section. If `lint` rules are defined for individual APIs, their settings apply *together* with the global configuration. So, if API and global sections modify the same properties, API settings will always override global settings.
```

```yaml
lint:
  doNotResolveExamples: true
  extends:
    - recommended
  rules:
    (...)
```

## features.mockServer
A mock server imitates a real API server by providing mock API responses to requests. The API registry supports [mock servers](../../api-registry/guides/mock-server-quickstart.md) which, when enabled for an API, lets you send it test requests from any API client.

In `redocly.yaml`, the optional `features.mockServer` section lets you configure how the mock server behaves. This table describes the supported fields.

| Property | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `errorIfForcedExampleNotFound` | `boolean` | You can force specific examples to appear in the response by adding the optional `x-redocly-response-body-example` header to your requests. If you pass an example ID that cannot be found in the OpenAPI definition, the mock server will return any other example. If `errorIfForcedExampleNotFound: true`, the mock server will return an error instead. Possible values: `true`, `false`. Default value: `false`. |

> | `strictExamples` | `boolean` | By default, the mock server automatically enhances responses with heuristics, such as substituting response fields with request parameter values. If you set `strictExamples: true`, examples are returned in the response unmodified, and exactly how they are defined in the OpenAPI definition. Possible values: `true`, `false`. Default value: `false`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `strictExamples` | `boolean` | By default, the mock server automatically enhances responses with heuristics, such as substituting response fields with request parameter values. If you set `strictExamples: true`, examples are returned in the response unmodified, and exactly how they are described in the OpenAPI definition. Possible values: `true`, `false`. Default value: `false`. |
```

The `organization` property is only required in the configuration file if you're using the API registry and/or hosted Reference docs. It is not required for local Redocly CLI usage.

To find the organization ID:

1. Log into Workflows.
2. Access the **API registry** page.
3. In your browser's address bar, find the page URL.
4. The segment after `app.redocly.com/org/` is the organization ID.

For example, if the URL is `app.redocly.com/org/test_docs`, the organization ID is `test_docs`.

```yaml
organization: test_docs
apis:
  main@v1:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
...
```

:::info
In Redocly Workflows, organization ID and organization name are not the same thing.
:::

## `apis`

### Overview

The `apis` section lets you configure one or more API definition files. This gives you the flexibility to reference specific files in commands, and configure each file at a granular level.

Every file listed in this section is identified by `name@version`. `@version` is optional. It allows you to manage multiple versions of each API. When a version is not provided, Redocly apps interpret a file as being `latest`. Every `name@version` combination must be unique.

> For every OpenAPI definition listed in the `apis` section, use the `root` property to define the path to the file. For example:

Reviewer: note: I didn't copy it because this is incorrect. This section is about APIs and not files. Let me try to explain by example. Same file, but two different APIs.

```yaml
apis:
  core@v1:
    root: ./openapi.yaml
  core@v2:
    root: ./openapi.yaml
    lint: {...}
```

```yaml
apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
```

:::info
If you try to assign labels that don't already exist for your organization, Redocly apps will show a warning in the output and will only assign existing labels.
:::

#### The `lint` property
In addition to the global (top-level) `lint` section, you can define lint rules for each API listed in the `apis` section.

```yaml
apis:
  main:
    root: ./openapi/openapi.yaml
    labels:
      - main
    lint:
      rules:
        example-rule: warn
```

Not all `lint` options are supported for individual APIs.

Option | Per-API support | Behavior
-- | -- | --
lint.extends | ❗ | API settings override global settings.
lint.rules | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.decorators | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.preprocessors | ✅ | API and global settings merge. In case of conflict, API takes priority.
lint.plugins | ❌ | Available in global configuration only.

#### The `features.openapi` property

> The global (top-level) `features.openapi` section is where you configure how all of your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as *theming*) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option — known as *functionality*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The global (top-level) `features.openapi` section is where you configure how all of your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as *theming*) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option — known as *features*).
```
This is misnamed in our documentation elsewhere and should be fixed.

  extends: []
```

## resolve

All API registry links and public URLs in your API definitions will automatically resolve. If you want to resolve links that are neither API registry links nor publicly accessible, you must add the `resolve` section to `redocly.yaml`.

:::info

> OpenAPI CLI only supports `http` headers, and only one `http` header per URL is supported under the `resolve` section. We recommend using environment variables whenever possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resolve` command only supports `http` headers, and only one `http` header per URL is supported under the `resolve` section. We recommend using environment variables whenever possible.
```

      - # header configuration
```

> The `headers` property supports the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `headers` object supports the following properties:
```

> | Field | Description | Examples |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property | Description | Examples |
```
issue: This is to be consistent with the rest of the docs. These are properties (also called fields colloquially).

        envVariable: SECRET_AUTH
```

If the URL matches multiple patterns, the first match takes precedence. Therefore, only the header from the first match will be used in the request.

## features.openapi

The `features.openapi` section is where you configure how your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as _theming_) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option  — known as _functionality_).

> There are two products impacted by this section: Redoc Community Edition (CE) and Redocly Reference. Reference supports all configuration options from Redoc Community Edition plus a set of premium options.

Reviewer: issue: The developer portal is also affected when someone uses the API catalog feature.

        envVariable: SECRET_AUTH
```

If the URL matches multiple patterns, the first match takes precedence. Therefore, only the header from the first match will be used in the request.

## features.openapi

The `features.openapi` section is where you configure how your published reference docs will look (style, fonts, colors — known as _theming_) and behave (enable/disable search, show/hide API reference docs download option  — known as _functionality_).

Three products are impacted by this section: Redoc Community Edition (CE), Redocly Reference and Developer portal (if the API catalog feature is used). Reference supports all configuration options from Redoc Community Edition plus a set of premium options.

> Find the full list of supported options on the [Reference docs configuration page](../../api-reference-docs/configuration/index.mdx) (those marked with **Supported in Redoc CE**).

Reviewer 2: question: what about those marked options? I don't understand why this is here - is it just a leftover from some copy/paste?

Author: It's here because if you go to the page referenced here (https://redocly.com/docs/api-reference-docs/configuration/theming/), you'll see that options that are supported in Redoc are marked in bold as **Supported in Redoc CE**. Did I get that wrong?

Reviewer: This tool is agnostic to if someone is using Redoc or our Developer portal, etc... So, any option there can be used. In fact, I don't think Redoc uses this configuration file format yet.

Reviewer 2: Right, that information is primarily intended for Redoc users who want to customize their docs (because they have limited options for doing that). It's not relevant in this case, so I think you can just remove that whole parenthesis.
